Deep Learning Waste Classification

	The planet has been suffering from pollution, and it is still an ongoing problem. Per the Global World Count, about 2.12 billion tons of waste are dumped on the planet every year. For a long time, dumping has been the way of discarding all the waste. Although the idea of recycling has been introduced and encouraged all around the world and a lot of organizations try very hard to reduce waste, it has not been very successful. We see that not a lot of people actually recycle their waste. 
It led me to think about what can help with this pollution problem and how data science can be used to reduce waste. Would it be able to make a machine to recycle for us? If a machine can separate recyclable waste from tons of trash, it would significantly reduce pollution. The ideal recycling machine will, when trash passes through it, scan each item, process the image, and put it in a different batch when it is recyclable. In order to make it possible, the machine has to recognize the type of waste when it scans trash. And hypothetically, it could be possible by training the machine using the deep learning technique. 
I will be using the data from Kaggle.com (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/techsash/waste-classification-data). The dataset consists of 22,564 images of waste. The images are divided into two categories: Organic and Recycle. Organics are composable waste such as food waste, and Recycles are plastic, glasses, etc. 
Tensorflow will be used for the deep learning models. Several models will be built and tested for its accuracy. The models will consist of dense layers with different combinations of parameters. The following parameters with different values will be applied and evaluated: 1) the number of layers 2) the type of activation functions 3) batch size and 4) learning rates. Every model with a different combination of parameters will be evaluated based on the scores and accuracy. Also, the time it takes to run the model will be considered for the evaluation. The project's ultimate goal will be to find the best model with a reasonable time to execute the code and give the highest accuracy. 
	The biggest challenge for this project will be the variety of the classification where the dataset offers only two types of categories: organic and recycle. As in real life, there are more kinds of waste than just those two types. Even if this project successfully finds the best deep learning model, it will need further developments to be utilized in real-world problems. 
	Also, there would be a technical challenge for this project as the size of the image dataset is significantly large. Some of the complicated models that require large RAM might not be running on the current computer and the session could end up being crashed. Many different but reasonable parameters will need to be tested to overcome this challenge. 
	For the end-users, this research and project solution can be used to build recycling products that will automatically recycle waste for us, deeper research and further developments will be needed though. The project solution will be valuable as it could give an idea for future technologies that could make a real impact on our lives and the planet we live on. 
